Redux

Redux is a data store tool - maybe, check online
It is not a mandatory thing for an application, but once an app become large with huge data to handle its good to use redux in that case.
Even then a large app can be made without using redux.

React and Redux are separate libraries
Zustand is a similar library

Redux is used to handle state of app, easier debugging
Redux toolkit is the latest way for writing redux code
https://redux-toolkit.js.org/introduction/getting-started

Redux store is a large JS object with huge data for an app, kept in a global central place.
Slices are small portion of a redux store

For this app, let's say we have a slice for Cart in the redux store.
Data cannot be directly inserted to the cart slice, there is a method to insert data.
So when add button is clicked on a food item, it dispatches an action, and the action calls a function, and the function modifies the cart
Add button clicked -> action dispatched -> function called -> cart modified by funtion
the function above is known as reducer

Add button clicked -> dispatches an action -> calls the reducer function -> updates the slice (cart) of the redux store
The above flow is for writing data to the redux store

Reading data:
Selector is used to read data from store and it is used to modify the react component,
whenever a component is reading data using selector from redux store it is known as - subscribing to the store
In our case Header component (Cart) is subscribed to the redux's Cart slice
how does a component subscribe to the store - using selector
so as a unit, when Add button is clicked for an menu item, the cart will get updated and the Header's cart will show the updated cart item number

#Redux toolkit

- install @reduxjs/toolkit and react-redux
- build our store
- connect our store to our app
- Slice (cartSlice)
- dispatch(action)
- Selector

A selector is a hook

Important note: Only subscribe to the right part of the store, meaning only subscribe to the data which the component needs.
Subscribing to additional parts can result in performance hit.
In this app, in Cart component, we have subscribied to only the items part of the store.
Instead we can subscribe to the whole store and its would work. But this will result in a performance hit as in when the app becomes large any change in the whole store will cause re-render for cart component if it is subscribed to the store.

1. use selector carefully - subscribe to only the part of data store which is needed
2. check for reducers/ reducer terms while using in export and defining statements in the redux store setup

In old version of redux - vanilla redux
redux suggested - DON'T MUTATE THE STATE, so a new state was created using the passed state and then modified and returned, return was mandatory

In redux toolkit - HAVE TO MUTATE THE EXISTING STATE OR RETURN THE NEW STATE
react toolkit does mutate the state behind the scene, lifting the burden from developers
it uses a library - immer for mutating the state

install redux dev tools extension - really helpful for debugging

redux toolkit docs - RTK Query
https://redux-toolkit.js.org/tutorials/rtk-query
